Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. This
is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life and we'll continue
in this particular episode on a very
important subject matter which is
healing in the newness of life and I
hope you have been blessed thus far.
We're about to get to the practical side
of the teaching and so everything we've
said earlier is so important to the
things we're about to establish now. Now
you remember what brought us to this
juncture in our study. We understood
that to fulfill God's purpose for our
life, it's required that we grow. You
know, is the degree of our growth that
determines the degree of our fulfillment
of God's purpose. Now, we're seen that
what we are to grow in is the reality of
the new man or the reality of the new
creation or the reality of the newness
of life. With that understanding in mind
that our growth is in this newness of
life, we began our study on the newness
of life as well as the realities there
in. Essentially, we came to the
conclusion that the newness of life is
not just something internal, is also
external. So there's the life God wants
us to have as a world as well as the
life he puts in us. So it's like talking
about the life in water as well as the
life of a particular kind of fish. When
you are aware of those two things, then
you understand that when Paul speaks of
us walking in the newness of life in
Romans 6 and4, there are external
conditions as well as internal ones
pertaining to that life. And it's with
this in mind we had to define. All
right, this life we're talking about is
something God wanted from the start and
would be fully effected at the end.
That's fine. But what is available to us
right now? what is available to us in
the newness of life today. We drilled
the boundaries and we said that
everything in that life that would be
fully affected in the age to come is
available except mortality of our body
and incorruption of matter. So next
question we ask is what then is
available to our body as well as to us
relative to matter. So we started with
the first part was available to our body
which we said is healing and we made the
case for that by seeing how immortality
will be affected in our body at the end.
And we saw from Romans 8:11, Philippians
3:20,
um 2 Corinthians 54 and 5. Um there are
so many texts we could even look at in
that regard. I also made a reference to
Ephesians 3:20 as an argument. In that
regard, we can see that it's by the
spirit or the power at work in us that
we are going to have the effecting of
immortality in our body as well as
incorruption in matter. Okay. So if you
have that in mind that oh okay so this
is going to be done by the spirit but it
is not yet now the lord Jesus will do so
at his coming. What is available in the
spirit for my bodies today? Healing. All
right. How do we know? We saw it in the
walk of the lord Jesus as well as in the
ministry of the church. You know in the
book of acts that healing was available.
Healing was available in the spirit for
the bodies of people. Yes. Healing was
available in the spirit for the bodies
of people. Healing was available in the
newness of life. Was available in the
power of God for the bodies of people.
So I want us to recognize that this is a
biblical submission. This is not a
submission that pertains to a particular
movement, group of people, set just
people who have lost their heads or
their minds. If the Bible is the
revelation of God, which it is, and for
good reason, then we ought to accept
that truth that by what Christ has done,
by what redemption has accomplished,
healing is available. And it's on the
premise of redemption, it was available
before Christ came. Yeah. It was also is
on the very premise of that redemption
Christ would do that healing was also
available prior to his coming. Very
important. It's like talking about
forgiveness of sins available for Christ
came. We're told that God forbought
because of what he was going to do in
Christ. And it's the same way now that
sin and death entered the world. The
right for healing was available because
of the work that the Lord was going to
do and has done in his death and
resurrection. All right. So putting that
in mind um you know we we should have
that very serious appreciation that
healing is is is available to us right
now. Now we have had to make some
clarification that redemption has not
affected healing. It has only made it
available and it is available in the
newness of life. Very important. So we
shouldn't be reading text like 1 Peter
chapter 2:24, Mark chapter 8:16,17
in a way that can create a cognitive
dissonance, mental dissonance that we
have something and yet we're wondering
oh it will be so well. It's like someone
telling us you have immortality like
right now you're like are you even
kidding me like we are aging and you are
saying such a thing you know so it's
going to it's not just I mean it's just
wrong. Let's just just let's just put it
that way. It's just wrong. It's not just
correct. So healing is available in
redemption in the newness of life. It is
to be affected by us in our walk is much
the same way that a new nature and
character is available to us you know is
available to us in um by redemption you
know is available to us in the newness
of life but it's for us to walk in it.
This is standard Bible teaching Pauline
teaching and submission as well. Okay.
Now having said that we also took a look
at the place of natural healing where we
saw that man has been made the manager
of the cosmos and therefore everything
in the cosmos is meant to be managed by
us for good. We particularly paid
attention to Psalm 104 and verse4
downwards to 16. So please you can and
you ought to embrace all that is
available in natural. It belongs to us.
You know there's a text we could even
add in this regard when we say the
cosmos is ours. But um that text can be
stretched many ways. But let me still
just point it out. First Corinthians
chapter 3, Paul was telling them that
the knowledge of light of God's word
through several preachers was theirs.
And he even told them that the cosmos is
theirs. You know, even presently in this
life when they die, they are still
abiding with Christ. And even the things
to come are theirs as well. 1
Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 21.
Therefore let no man boast in men for
all things are yours whether Paul or
Apollos or SAS or the world the cosmos
or life or death or things present or
things to come. So of course death there
is talking about life after death if you
want to say. So or things present what
we have now in this life or things to
come the age to come all are yours and
you are Christ and Christ is God's. So
that's the mindset is presenting to us
about the cosmos. The cosmos is has for
managing. All right. So this is a very
important understanding that we ought to
have. We can embrace natural healing
fully as we embrace supernatural
healing. In fact, we already do on a you
know on a regular basis. The challenge
maybe arises when a sickness comes up
and people are contesting that it
shouldn't be in contest. You should
respond to it you know as is necessary
with the natural and the supernatural.
All right. So and that's a separate
issue we look at. Some will respond to
it like immediately supernaturally and
immediately also act in the natural and
that's okay. you know different strokes
for different folks according to their
faith but there must never be
foolishness okay and you must know how
to respond as necessary to um conditions
with natural healing well I haven't said
that we said healing is available
supernatural healing must not be
despised we must not have an aversion
for it is necessary for us as a matter
of a defense
an active response when there is a
situation and it's a joint response with
natural healing
depending so but I'm I'm saying that
because you shouldn't throw away natural
all together you know that is healing
resting sometimes you can believe God
and you are still supposed to rest
because you overworked yourself and
you'll be healed and sometimes you may
not need um to then use medication which
I mean is a godly thing that is
available to you as well sometimes you
might still have to use medication and
still believe God as well and there will
be nothing wrong with that so we need to
have the wisdom of God's word in
approaching responding to sickness and
disease with both supernatural healing
and natural healing and sometimes which
is the third thing supernatural healing
might be the only option on the table
situations can be so bad so difficult so
chronic so um deadly that all that you
can do is believe God and this is the
more reason why you shouldn't joke with
walking in healing in the newness of
life said all that you know walking in
healing as a defense, as a response, a
joint response in the wisdom of God. You
know, you are wise to discern. Okay, let
me let me believe God for this whilst I
do rest. I do this. Sometimes you might
say, okay, I think it's wise for me to
go ahead as I'm still believing God
because you'll see that faith is could
be progressive as you're going to see.
Okay, I might jump in the gun, but when
we get we're going to see that and then
sometimes maybe the only option. But
now, let's get into it. If our
conclusion is this that healing is
available in the newness of life.
Healing is available in the newness of
life. It's already available. It's a
gift. It's already given. It's not
discretionary. We have made that
argument and we're still going to talk
about it. If healing is available in the
newness of life, there's one question we
need to answer and that is how is it
affected? We know immortality will be
affected at the Lord's discretion at his
coming. That one is crystal clear in
scripture. So how is healing affected?
Is he affected at the Lord's discretion
and when or how or just yeah as
discretion anytime he wants whenever he
wants wherever he wants is that healing
is affected
please we need to this where we need to
pay attention. So if healing is
available in redemption already
available, we already have healing in
this new life we have in Christ. How is
he affected?
Now there is no honest way to read the
Bible, none whatsoever, that we would
not realize that healing is affected
by faith.
The idea that it is effected at God's
discretion you you know with that you
don't have any role whatsoever
you it can't be sustained alongside a
very honest reading of the scriptures.
There is no way to read the scriptures
that is not very obvious to us that
Jesus was a faith healer. This is
standard
um crit um historical view of the person
of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is admitted
across the board. It is undeniable. He
did not even pretend about it. That is
exactly what he was doing. He was
clearly teaching healing by of healing
by God's power by faith. All right. So
this is so important. You could you you
you couldn't have known him without
knowing him with that. It was that
how is healing affected? Healing is
available in redemption. Healing is
available in the gospel. Healing is
available in the new life. How is he
affected? We said by faith. What I'm
going to do is start with an account we
have seen in this um in one of our
episodes earlier which is Paul in Acts
14 because with the Lord Jesus is all
over the place and I'm going to go back
there. We're going to look at a good
number of text. So I'll start with Paul
in Acts chapter 14 and in verse 7 all
the way to verse 9 and they were
preaching the gospel there. So Paul was
somewhere preaching the gospel and in
Lististra he said Paul went to Listra
and Debbie and they were preaching the
gospel there. So he now mentioned
particularly in one of the places where
they were preaching the gospel in
Lististra a certain man without strength
in his two feet was sitting a
from his mother's womb who had never
walked. So this is a very serious case.
I mean it's been like that from his
mother's womb. This man, this man,
sorry, had Paul, sorry. This man heard
Paul speaking. Paul observing him
intently and seeing that he had faith to
be healed, said with a loud voice,
"Stand upright on your feet."
Did you see that? This is not the case
that Paul was told, "It's time for him
to get healed." This is not the case of
any other thing. And Paul observed and
saw that from his preaching this man had
faith. So faith was such visible that
Paul perceived his faith. And he says,
"Stand upright on your feet." And he
lived and walked. Yeah. In this case,
healing was available in the message
Paul was preaching because it was
available in the work of the message he
was preaching. Is available in
redemption. So Paul is preaching the
gospel which is redemption. What Christ
has done, it's available there. as he
was preaching it Paul saw he had faith
and he says stand up on your feet and
walk you know that's it simple he was
affected um he was affected by faith
now there other text that will tell us
about the Lord Jesus seeing that people
had faith so we'll see that in Mark
chapter 9:2 remember the man that was
brought into his teaching meeting from
the roof and he said he perceived their
faith that's third party faith in this
case this was um second party faith the
person that needed healing
So uh sorry am I saying it right? So you
know we'll see it later. There's the
faith of the minister. There's the faith
of the person that needs the healing.
But it could be third party faith like
the friends of the person that brought
him. It could be the entire
congregation. But something is clear in
God's word. There is no doubt that the
way the faith available in the spirit in
the newness of life in the gospel in
redemption was affected was by faith.
Now what we think that faith is might be
a debate for some people and it's
something we're also going to get into
because healing the newness of life
would be is walked in by faith. We need
to examine that you know and be strong
in the same. So in Mark chapter 9 and in
verse two it says then behold they
brought to him a paralytic lying on the
bed and Jesus saw their faith. I'm going
to read one more account and we'll wrap
up this episode. Mark chapter 5, Jesus
told the woman who had the issue of
blood who was healed from that. He told
her in verse 34, "Daughter, your faith,"
he didn't say God. Of course, we know
it's God. Our faith in God, right? But
he says, "Your faith has made you well.
Go into peace and be healed of your
affliction."
We're going to wrap it up there for now.
But faith is affected, sorry, healing is
affected by faith. All right. God bless
you. fulfill God's purpose and be
healed. Amen.
>> We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about how
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Pllearose_hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.